content/contributing/index.markdown, before:

+++
title = "Contributing to our Projects"
type = "article"
+++

Sourcemeta is an open-source organization. As such, it accepts and appreciates
external contributions. These involve code, documentation, design, or any other
type of changes that improve our projects in any way.

Developer Certificate of Origin
-------------------------------

To ensure suitability of proposed changes from an intellectual property point
of view, every Sourcemeta project enforces the [Developer Certificate of Origin
(DCO)](https://developercertificate.org). This is a statement introduced by the
Linux Foundation to ensure the contributor is allowed to make the contribution
and that the project has the right to distribute it under its license.

From a contributor point of view, the Developer Certificate of Origin requires
you to sign-off your [Git](https://git-scm.com) commits. You can automatically
do this using the
[`--signoff`](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-commit#Documentation/git-commit.txt---signoff)
command-line flag.

Grant of Rights
---------------

By contributing to any open-source project hosted by Sourcemeta, the
Contributor irrevocably assigns, transfers, and conveys to the organization all
right, title, and interest in and to any contributions, including, but not
limited to, all intellectual property rights.

The contributor acknowledges and agrees that Sourcemeta shall have the
exclusive right to use, reproduce, modify, distribute, publicly display,
publicly perform, sublicense, and otherwise exploit the contributions, whether
in original or modified form, for any purpose and without any obligation to
account to the contributor.

The contributor grants Sourcemeta the right to re-license the contributions,
including any derivative works, under other licenses as Sourcemeta deems
appropriate.

Resources
---------

Most of our software is written in C++, relies on the CMake build system, and
targets macOS, Windows, and GNU/Linux. If you are looking to contribute, you
might find the following resources handy:

### C++ and CMake

- (Book) [The C++ Programming Language](https://stroustrup.com/4th.html)
- (Book) [Professional CMake](https://crascit.com/professional-cmake/)
- (Website) [Compiler Explorer](https://godbolt.org)
- (Website) [C++ Insights](https://cppinsights.io)
- (Specification) [Itanium C++ ABI](https://itanium-cxx-abi.github.io/cxx-abi/abi.html)

### macOS

- (Website) [Apple Developer macOS Performance Tools](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/Performance/Conceptual/PerformanceOverview/PerformanceTools/PerformanceTools.html)
- (Book) [DTrace: Dynamic Tracing in Oracle Solaris, Mac OS X and FreeBSD](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0132091518)
- (App) [Hopper Disassembler](https://www.hopperapp.com)
- (App) [MachOView](https://sourceforge.net/projects/machoview/)
- (App) [RuntimeBrowser](https://github.com/nst/RuntimeBrowser)

Commit message:

Extract resources into its own page
Signed-off-by: Juan Cruz Viotti <jv@jviotti.com>

content/contributing/index.markdown, after:

+++
title = "Contributing to our Projects"
type = "article"
+++

Sourcemeta is an open-source organization. As such, it accepts and appreciates
external contributions. These involve code, documentation, design, or any other
type of changes that improve our projects in any way. Also check out the
[resources]({{< ref "resources" >}}) page for useful material that can help you
make contributions.

Developer Certificate of Origin
-------------------------------

To ensure suitability of proposed changes from an intellectual property point
of view, every Sourcemeta project enforces the [Developer Certificate of Origin
(DCO)](https://developercertificate.org). This is a statement introduced by the
Linux Foundation to ensure the contributor is allowed to make the contribution
and that the project has the right to distribute it under its license.

From a contributor point of view, the Developer Certificate of Origin requires
you to sign-off your [Git](https://git-scm.com) commits. You can automatically
do this using the
[`--signoff`](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-commit#Documentation/git-commit.txt---signoff)
command-line flag.

Grant of Rights
---------------

By contributing to any open-source project hosted by Sourcemeta, the
Contributor irrevocably assigns, transfers, and conveys to the organization all
right, title, and interest in and to any contributions, including, but not
limited to, all intellectual property rights.

The contributor acknowledges and agrees that Sourcemeta shall have the
exclusive right to use, reproduce, modify, distribute, publicly display,
publicly perform, sublicense, and otherwise exploit the contributions, whether
in original or modified form, for any purpose and without any obligation to
account to the contributor.

The contributor grants Sourcemeta the right to re-license the contributions,
including any derivative works, under other licenses as Sourcemeta deems
appropriate.
