+++
title = "Licensing"
type = "article"
+++

{{<lead>}} At Sourcemeta, we are committed to continuously produce world-class
open-source software that challenges the status quo. Realistically, that is not
possible without funding.{{</lead>}}

Our approach to licensing is for our software to be *free for open-source,
academia, or personal use*. However, to ensure the sustainability of our
projects, exploiting our technology advancements to power for-profit
proprietary products requires giving back.

That's why the software we produce is typically published under the
[AGPL-3.0](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.en.html) copy-left license.
This is an [OSI-approved](https://opensource.org/license/agpl-v3) modern
variant of the original
[GPL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNU_General_Public_License#Version_3)
license introduced by Richard Stallman as part of the Free Software movement.
You already know and use many projects released under this family of licenses,
such as the [Linux
Kernel](https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/process/license-rules.html), the
[GCC Compiler](https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/libstdc++/manual/license.html),
[Bash](https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/), the [VLC Media
Player](https://www.videolan.org/legal.html), and the popular
[MinIO](https://min.io) S3-compatible object store.

Because of the AGPL, the most prominent condition of our projects is that you
cannot include them as part of a project that is not AGPL as well. To help you
bypass this limitation, we can issue perpetual and/or subscription-based
commercial licenses that removes all copy-left restrictions. Think of it as an
enforced donation that keeps our projects healthy while giving you additional
perks like premium support.

Additionally, we typically issue free commercial licenses to non-profit
organisations, organisations dedicated to global sustainability, notable
external contributors to our projects, and organisations that hire Sourcemeta
on general consultancy or custom development deals.

To discuss more, don't hesitate in reaching out to hello@sourcemeta.com. If you
are a potential contributor, also take a look at our [Contribution
Agreement](https://github.com/sourcemeta/.github/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).
